Profile
Summary
UI Developer of 8+ years experience. Core skill-set includes Javascript, HTML5, CSS3, Adobe CC Suite, and a number of frameworks for server and client. Strong design background and IoT experience.
Development skills includes ES5/6, NodeJS, ReactJS, React Native, Redux, HapiJS, BackboneJS, d3.js, socket.io, git, Webpack, and Jasmine. Broad CSS experience including SCSS, Less, and Stylus. Experience designing and developing responsive mobile applications. 
IoT experience includes Raspberry Pi and micro-controllers such as Particle Electron, Tessel 2, and Arduino. Developed applications with Leap Motion and Myo Armbands for real-time interactivity. Comfortable with *nix OSs and the command line.
Comfortable in a variety of team settings and styles. Strong user testing skills and ability to deal with edge cases. Loves product managers, designers, and engineers alike. Fights for the user's experience.
Skills
Javascript (ES5/6), NodeJS, HTML5, CSS3, SCSS, ReactJS, React Native, Flux, Redux, d3, BackboneJS, HapiJS, socket.io, git, Webpack, Grunt, Adobe CC Suite, Sublime Text, Balsamiq Mockups, Sketchup, Raspberry Pi, Arduino, C, C++, *nix, VDMX, MadMapper
Experience
Lead Developer at Havyn — Jan 2016 - Present
Co-founded HAVYN, Inc. as Lead Developer. Developed end-to-end Javascript applications for smart locker IoT product. Developed a cloud-based server to manage all devices in the field. Designed and developed a mobile application with React Native. Prototyped IoT product with Linux-based platforms including as Raspberry Pi 3 and Particle Electron. Integrated prototype with hardware peripherals for user input and feedback.
Artist In Residence — May 2016 - May 2017
Joined artist-in-residence program at Merchants of Reality, 501(c)3 arts-oriented non-profit. Projects include projection-mapped installations with real-time, wearable interfaces; 15' floating LED pyramid installation; a full-length science fiction novel. Responsibilities during residency include: project management, volunteer management, crowdfunding, grant writing, PR, design, and maintenance of a historic venue space circa 1906 in downtown San Francisco.
UI Developer at Avenue Code — March 2015 - March 2016
Developed UIs with React, Redux, ES6, and other state-of-the-art development tools. Developed stateful UI components with BackboneJS, MarionetteJS, and SCSS for high-profile retail clients that serve millions of customers across Macy’s.com and Bloomingdales.com. 
Software Developer at SAY Media — February 2014 - January 2015
Developed features for a UX-critical single page application using AngularJS, Node, and open-source libraries. Worked closely with designers, QA, stakeholders, and with clientele directly to deliver an award-winning CMS publishing platform UIs that serves millions of users across multiple brands.
Front-end Developer at Vidcaster — January 2014 - March 2014
Built Model-View library for asynchronous client-side template loading and rendering in a Python/Django application. Applied front-end features to client sites in a team setting. Built new features using low-level DOM scripting. Supported team members in front-end development tasks. Informed front-end engineering strategies for new releases.
UI Developer/Designer at FACSWare — February 2013 - September 2013
Developed UI standards & UX code for HTML5 web application. Integrated front-end code with a PHP/Zend Framework/Postgres backend. Brought outdated, existing codebase up to modern desktop and mobile web standards.
Interactive UX Developer at Fuseproject — October 2012 - February 2013
Developed UI & UX code for HTML5 mobile web apps for brand name clients, balancing rapid prototyping needs with final production desires. Developed solutions for consistent UI and interaction challenges across desktop and mobile devices.
Freelance Web Development & Design — 2009 to present
Portfolio includes applications and websites for major brands and institutions including Sports Authority, Movies.com, Stanford University, and Herman Miller. Works with design agencies, government organizations, consulting agencies, non-profit organizations, published novelists, and independent producers of all kinds.
Education
Maryland Institute College of Art, 2006-2008
Painting Major, Creative Writing Minor
References available on request.
knaut.net		github.com/knaut		linkedin.com/in/danielaanderson